Posibble answers:
	Stretching Exercises
	ROM Exercises
	PROM
	Prescribe PROM to
	Passive ROM Exercises will NOT
	Prescribe AROM when
	AROM exercises will NOT
	A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when
	ROM exercises are contraindicated when
--------------------------------------------------------

Stretching Exercises: Include passive and active stretching

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Increase circulation & prevent thrombus formation (blood clots). 

Prescribe PROM to: Stress tissue conservatively into end ranges when active movement is not tolerated 

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Maintain contractility of muscle when it is being minimally used.

ROM Exercises: Used to maintain existing joint and soft tissue mobility

PROM: Assist in circulation & vascular dynamics. 

AROM exercises will NOT: Be appropriate or safe when active contraction of muscle is contraindicated.

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: The patient has an unstable cardiovascular condition.

Passive ROM Exercises will NOT: Increase strength or endurance. 

ROM Exercises: Can be passive, active or active-assisted

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Develop coordination & motor skills for low level functional activities.

PROM: Assist with nutrition of articular cartilage. 

Passive ROM Exercises will NOT: Assist circulation to the extent produced by voluntary muscle contraction.

ROM Exercises: Often implemented to minimize the development of contractures

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Improve cardiopulmonary function for VERY low level patients. 

PROM: Maintain awareness of motion when it is lacking.

Prescribe AROM when: A patient has the ability to contract muscles actively and move a segment, BUT displays significant weakness of muscles in that segment to the extent that makes even light resistance exercise too difficult.

A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when: External force may be applied manually or mechanically. 

PROM: Maintain motion when AROM and AAROM are contraindicated.

AROM exercises will NOT: Develop coordination or skill except in the plane utilized during exercise. For example, after hip surgery, a patient performs hip AROM flex and extension. This will not carry over into additional movement coordination during AROM abduction.

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: If the patient is experiencing a severe acute phase of inflammation. 

A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when: All indications and limitations described for AROM exercises also apply to AAROM exercises

Passive ROM Exercises will NOT: Maintain contractility of muscle.

Stretching Exercises: Occur at the end-range of motion

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Maintain mobility above and below an immobilized region.

Stretching Exercises: Therapeutic maneuver designed to lengthen soft tissue structures that have been deemed “short” in order to increase ROM

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: There are signs of Deep Vein Thrombosis (blood clot).

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: Motion is disruptive to healing.  

PROM: Decrease pain.

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: If the patient is experiencing severe pain at rest

A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when: AAROM only if AROM is not through full ROM. 

PROM: Minimize stiffness of muscles. 

ROM Exercises: Occurs in the unrestricted portion of joint motion

AROM exercises will NOT: Increase strength in muscles of at least average strength. 

A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when: Movement in the unrestricted portion of motion that is produced by a combination of voluntary muscle contraction and externally applied force. 

Passive ROM Exercises will NOT: Reduce significant contractures.

Prescribe PROM to: Maintain gains made between bouts of exercise that stretches shortened tissue

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Provide stimulus to maintain bone that is receiving minimal stress. 

ROM exercises are contraindicated when: Controlled motion is often beneficial to healing and prevents the adverse effects of immobilization, but excess motion can be counterproductive. The goal is to find the “Goldilocks Zone” providing the amount of motion that is “just right”.

PROM: Assist with the healing process. 

AROM exercises are indicated when the goal is to: Provide sensory feedback to and from muscles being minimally used.

A PT should prescribe Active-Assisted ROM exercises when: Used when prime mover is not capable of completing motion. 

Prescribe PROM to: Maintain joint & soft tissue mobility and prevent the formation of contractures when active movement is not possible.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Indications for the various forms of ROM exercises: Say if PROM, AROM, or AAROM
	Assist healing process PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Maintain joint and soft tissue mobility PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Prevent formation of contactures PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Minimize stiffness of muscles PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Assist in circulation & vascular dynamics PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Maintains awareness of motion PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	To demonstrate desired motions PROM, AROM, and AAROM
	Assist with nutrition of articular cartilage PROM, AROM, and AAROM

	Maintain contractility of muscle AROM and AAROM
	Provide sensory feedback from muscles AROM and AAROM
	Provide stimulus to maintain bone health AROM and AAROM
	Increase circulation & prevent thrombus formation AROM and AAROM
	Develop coordination & motor skills for functional activities AROM and AAROM
	Improve cardiopulmonary function AROM and AAROM